Home
====
// See COPYING for license terms of this file.

image::img/screenshots/th_phase2-0.11_02.jpg[alt="Freedoom Screenshot",link="screenshots.html",float="right"]

The Freedoom project aims to create a complete
https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html[free content] game based
on the _Doom_ engine.

Combined with the engine, _Freedoom_ is also compatible with game
modifications (``mods'') made for the original _Doom_ games, made by
_Doom_ fans and artists over the decades.

For more information, see the link:about.html[What is Freedoom?] page.

Project News
------------

2017-03-15: Freedoom 0.11.2 released
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Solving a few more issues found in the previous release, this point
release is more dry than the last one, but we hope that it just
refines the game to make it better than before.

  * Missing multiplayer starts have been added to several levels.
    No map should be lacking anymore.
  * A few mapping errors were repaired by changing sector heights.
    Speedrunners can better appreciate smooth flow through the levels.
  * Easy and normal difficulty levels have been tweaked.
  * Par times for Phase 1 have been added.
  * Cleaned up title screen using the Freedoom font for ‚ÄúPhase 1‚Äù and
    ‚ÄúPhase 2‚Äù on screen.

2017-02-22: Freedoom 0.11.1 released
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We've had quite a good reception for 0.11 and are thankful to everyone
sending feedback, both praise and criticism, we use it all for
improving Freedoom further!  This point release repairs a few
deficiencies found in the 0.11 release, and adds new resources.

  * 1% armor bonus pickups are recolored from red to green.  They were
    too easily confused for health pickups.
  * New _TNT: Evilution_-compatible textures.
  * New pain bringer and pain lord sprites, replacing old concept
    art-derived ones.
  * A few map errors are fixed, including misaligned textures,
    leftover Boom specials, and it should no longer be possible to get
    stuck between a rock and a tree in _Phase 1_ C1M1.
  * Brand new _Phase 1_ C3M1, replacing an old _Doom_-inspired
    level.
  * Widescreen statusbar for ZDoom was removed.  This created
    incompatibility with some mods, and mod compatibility is prefered
    over visual enhancements.
  * Fixed intermission text after using the secret exit in _Phase 2_
    MAP31, where obituary texts were incorrectly displayed instead.
  * More new music tracks, providing better vanilla compatibility.

2017-02-16: Freedoom 0.11 released
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Another year, and one of _Freedoom_'s biggest updates has arrived!
One of the major developments we've had is the elimination of Boom as
the target engine for game support.  While we are aiming for an
eventual compatibility with Vanilla _Doom_, _Freedoom_ should
presently run on any limit-removing engine, which is nearly all of
them.

  * Lots of new music.
  * New levels, including C1M1 kicking off _Phase 1_.
  * Aquatex: over 200 new textures for mappers to use.
  * New intermission screens.
  * Some new weapon sprites: new pistol, new pickups.
  * New medkit and armor pickup sprites.
  * New project logo. üòÄ

2015-12-15: Freedoom 0.10 released
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Another large update to Freedoom, representing many changes to the
game, giving a better feel for being an independent game and fleshing
out neglected areas of the project.  We're not done yet, but close!

  * Brand new status bar.
  * New sprites for the serpent and orb monster.
  * New HUD graphics for the single- and double-barrel shotguns,
    missile launcher, and SKAG.
  * New pain sounds for many monsters and the player.
  * New maps in _Phase 1_ and _Phase 2_.
